[music]
One of the things that I admire about
you is your voracious appetite for
learning and you started in the William
Morris file room and you had access to
all these but it was like you David
Geffen Barry Diller all the same sort of
path in the file room reading the
history. What's the modern equivalent of
that do you think for people out there
wanting to get ahead at work?
>> Well, I don't I you know it's a really
great question. I'm not sure, frankly,
because one of my I I love the internet
and I love being on my computer to the
point where
um
my significant other wants to kill me
sometimes because I just love surfing
through the internet and going down
rabbit holes.
First of all, there's a
David Geffin and Barry Diller and I are
very dissimilar human beings, but we do
share a couple of very similar traits.
All three of us cut our teeth in the
early years uh in the entertainment
business. All three of us have voracious
appetites for learning and all three of
us have voracious appetite to read.
David and Barry are two of the smartest
guys that I know and they're on top of
everything. If you talk to them, you
know, it's extraordinary how well read
they are. These guys didn't go to
college. They're better read than most
PhDs that I know in any field. And
secondly, we all three demonstrated that
as mail room employees where we knew the
quickest path was education. I have a
thing I always say to people that work
with me. Knowledge is power. And it
works for you and against you. And it
works for you if you embrace it, use it,
read, and try to index it in your head
for context. Works against you if it
turns you into a lawyer. And lying is a
when I started at CA in 74 it became
very clear to me that lying was a
industrial problem in the entertainment
business. Everybody didn't tell the
truth. One of the reasons they did not
tell the truth is since they didn't know
the term knowledge is power but they
knew it innately that they had to have
an answer. So you could call up an agent
and ask them a question. They felt this
necessity to have an answer. And by
doing that, they'd sometimes more than
half the time make it up. So we started
some very simple rules which
I was shocked in retrospect how
revolutionary there were, but they were
simple. To me, it was like
simpleton
logic. Don't lie if you don't have an
answer. Here's your answer. Tell you
what, Shane, I'm going to get back to
you because I don't know the answer to
that question, but I'm going to find
out. That's highly acceptable.
Entertainment business, everybody knows
everything. They know everything. It's
not possible, by the way. Not possible.
>> It's the same inside most organizations.
Everybody will make up an answer on the
fly. And
>> well, I think people want to show that
they're in the know. And I think it's
just very fine to show that you're not
and that you want to find out. [snorts]
And then the second thing we did was
insist on teamwork, which was shocking
to everybody because in, you know, for
75 years it was one client, one agent,
and we would not allow that. All of our
clients had multiple agents, so they
could talk to a lot of different people.
In the years I was at CA, we never lost
a client. And the reason was if they
tired of one person, they'd go to the
next. But everyone was up to speed.
I mean, up to the minute on their
career. Um, our inner office rule was
you had to answer your associates first
before the clients, before the buyers.
And we were all basically empowered by
each other. And it, if you look at it,
the permutation of that thesis is to the
hundth power. You can't beat it. And by
the way, it's one of the reasons we
attracted most of the major working
talent. We didn't have any ego about who
handled who. We didn't have any ego
about passing information. We didn't
have any ego about anything because
the clients were in the ego business,
not us. They had egos, not on their own.
It was imputed to them because they were
movie stars. And I think I think they
have I think one of the most difficult
things in the world to do besides being
a physicist or a brain surgeon
or a any kind of surgeon
I think is being an actor or a director
or a writer. Uh writers are it's a
lonely sport. It's a lonely vocation.
You're by yourself usually. Some have
partners, most don't. And you got to
create out of thin air. Um, I find
artists in the same boat, painters,
sculptors. They I'm I'm wildly
impressed by the fact that they create
things out of nothing. I love it. That's
why I love art, that they can create
something that's either pleasing or
challenging. Directors
make 300 decisions a day.
And just little things like if the glass
on the table's in the wrong place for
the second shot,
your [clears throat] mistake is noted
for posterity.
>> Yeah.
>> And you always read about mistakes in
content. People love to catch it. And as
an actor, I remember once sitting with
Paul Newman, who was the loveliest man
and wanted so hard to be normal. He
really wanted to be one of the guys. He
took up racing and he was when he was at
the track, he was not Paul Newman the
movie star. He was Paul Newman the guy.
And I used to go with him all the time
to races and we used to go race go-karts
together. And I was with him one night
in Westport, Connecticut where he lived
and we were at a local restaurant and
he hated when people came up to him
while he was eating. He didn't care any
other time. He was really cool about
signing autographs. And I'm shoeing
people away. And I said, "Paul,
I got to ask you a question. You're
you're fun to be with. You're no
different than any of my other friends.
You just happen to be a lot better
looking and you can act, which none of
us can.
How is it that How do you take it with
everyone telling you you're the greatest
thing since the invention of the wheel?
You have the best eyes. You're this.
You're that." And he looked at me. He
said, "Michael, you know what? I don't
believe any of it, but after a certain
amount of time, it starts to get to you
and you start to think maybe, you know,
and I think it's a tough gig. Really? Do
>> is maybe let's invert this question a
little bit. You've had a front row seat
to Hollywood for a long time. Where do
people go wrong?
>> What are they?
>> Well, I think the first place everybody
goes wrong is they start to believe
things that aren't true. People tend to
deceive themselves. I find that to be a
common denominator amongst everybody
across every kind of industry. It
happens everywhere. If you start
believing that you're better than others
or that your press is accurate, good or
bad, or that
you are superior in any way. We're all
humans and we all have different skill
sets. Now, some athletes are just better
than others, but that doesn't make them
better people. Sometimes it makes them
worse people, actually.
>> And I think it's very easy to slip up in
Hollywood in many directions. You can
slip up in the relationship area. You
can slip up in the ego area. You can
slip up in uh believing you're something
that you're not. you can slip up in
uh just simple mistakes in daily life
that others might not make in different
vocations.
Uh Hollywood's also an incredibly social
event. Everything's a social event. Uh,
I always felt that Hollywood was
manufactured for people that had no
significant others, no children, no
home, no family, nothing except maybe a
two-bedroom apartment cuz they could go
out 365 nights a year and find
companionship with others in the same
boat and do something. [snorts] You
can't find that in most vocations.
What are I want to come back to CIA and
some of the simple rules that you had.
So you had teamwork and you had tell the
truth. What are the other ones?
>> Everyone had to be incredibly well read.
Um people were not allowed to recommend
roles or material that they didn't
believe in. That was a big downfall of
the agency business for all the years I
was in it before, which is people would
take a flyer to try to get you convinced
of something they didn't believe in.
That's a real weak link in the chain. We
didn't have any of that. You had to have
a passion for what you were doing. I had
an open door policy. Friday afternoons,
anyone could come in and give me
something to read. But since I could
only read a certain number of scripts on
a weekend, they had to be incredibly
passionate about it.
And you know, I remember
a young agent we had named Amy Grossman.
She was a literary agent and she was
terrific. And she came in to me one
afternoon and said, "I've read something
you've got to read." And I said, "Okay."
And I gave everybody like two minutes to
sell it to me because, and by the way, I
do the same thing in my tech investing
right now. If you can't tell me what
your business is about in 20 seconds,
you should not do your business because
how are you going to market it to the
world? You've [snorts] got to and I'm
not talking about that technical
algorithms of AI. I'm talking about what
does it do? And she walked in. She said,
"Your client Bob Town, who was one of
the great writers in the in the movie
business, wrote um uh Chinatown and
Cinderella Liberty and uh Tarzan and
some of the best scripts ever written in
in the community. I just read a script
by his brother, Roger Town, that
deserves attention by this company, by
CA, because our company worked as a
group. So if you brought a script in and
then a couple of the senior people read
it and endorsed it, it got a lot of
attention. So it had to be good because
we put a lot of assets on it. And at the
end of the day, all we have is our time
and you run out of time very fast. I
mean, in the
>> agency business, we were like one arm
wallpaper hangers, you know? I mean,
there's just no time. and she said,
"Here's what the script is about."
And she said, "It's about a guy who's
washed up and comes back [snorts]
to a professional baseball team. He's a
washed up baseball player and at a later
age, he comes back and it's his
journey." I got a little tingle on that.
And I also had indexed in my head that
our client Robert Redford was looking
for a baseball movie. So I took the
script home. I read it and I called her
the minute I finished. I said, "This is
a great film. Great film. Needs some
work, but great film." And I said, "I
know. I have a great idea of how to put
it together." And I I said, "I'm going
to tell you and tell me honestly what
you think." Because we were about
directness and honesty and truth. That
was critical to us. Tell your clients
the truth. People in the entertainment
business were just always lied to. We
would have I would see agents tell or
their clients that they had just seen a
film that was where where they had just
seen dailies where they were no good and
something was wrong and they needed to
be reshot. They'd say, "Oh, you look
great." Tell them what they want to
hear. We never did that ever.
>> Is there an art to telling people the
truth? Especially when there's ego
involved.
>> No, it's just you just say it. And they,
you know what? It's interesting. They
appreciate it. I want to be told the
truth. But in any case, I said to Amy,
we have a director we represent was one
of my very first clients as a writer.
His name is Barry Levenson and I signed
him as a comedy writer when I saw him on
a local television show in 1969.
And but he had an eye and he had a lust
for the business and he was smart and he
was visual and I knew that he had
something in him. and we put his first
movie together called Diner and it was a
huge success with all unknown cast that
proved to be all up and cominging young
stars which means he had an eye and I
knew Redford wanted to do a baseball
movie. I also knew the odds of Redford
working with a second time director
after having worked with some of the
greats like Sydney Pollock and you know
some of the best directors around that
he probably wouldn't do it. But I
decided to put my self and the company
behind it and I sent Bob the script and
I sent Barry the script both of them
simultaneously which was unusual by the
way. Usually you build a package one
element at a time. And they both
responded positively. And I called Bob
and I said, "I'd like to bring Barry to
see you up at Sundance."
He [snorts and clears throat] and when I
said, "But I want to warn you, he's only
done one movie, but I have a strong
belief in this guy." And to Bob's
credit, because Bob was the founder of
Sundance and liked experimental films
and young people, he said, "Let me meet
him." no guar no commitments but I'll
meet him. So I remember taking my son
Chris who at the time was about I don't
six seven years old up to Sundance with
me and Barry and we went and sat with
Bob in the Sundance Lodge and they
really hit it off and we packaged the
natural that day right there. Then we
put uh Kim Basinger and Bill Brimley and
Glen Close, three other clients in and
then we got it financed and it the rest
is history. It was a huge hit.
>> One of the quotes that I loved in your
book was don't fight your job. Can you
unpack that for me?
Well, I I mean over the years I as a
person who is in the business of giving
advice, which even though I'm not an
agent anymore, I still find myself doing
that constantly on a daily basis for
people that are friends or former
clients or people I'm in business with.
uh looking for another point of view. I
get that call and in the course of those
discussions a more likely than not
people are their first complaint is
usually about an associate then about a
deal gone wrong and then about not
liking their job. And I'm a huge
believer that you have to do what you
love doing. I mean, right now I'm doing
something. I can't wait to get up every
morning. So, if you can't feel that way,
you shouldn't do the job or you should
look for another job or you should ask
yourself why you're not happy in the job
if you were at one time. So, there's a
whole there's a whole pilot's checklist
to look at if that's the case. And it's
important because if you're fighting
going to work during the day, you're not
going to perform to your capacity or
potential
>> and you're not going to be exceptional.
>> Well, you're not going to you're not
going to stand out. And at the end of
the day, that's what it's all about is
excellence and standing out and doing
good things and helping people. And you
can't do any of that if you're
personally unhappy. You have a
non-starter on your hands.
You're one of the people I know with
probably the most relationships. How do
you manage and keep in contact with so
many people?
>> Well, I love people, so that's one
thing. Two, I'm very uh efficient with
my communications.
Um, I also basically
uh I collect art and people. Those are
the two things I collect. And art is
easy because it's static. You can look
at it, you can make a decision. People
is as fascinating, probably more
fascinating, but takes a lot of time.
And I put that time in if I really feel
that the relationship's a two-way
street. [music]
You're in meetings all day. You're
trying to stay present, but you're also
worried you'll forget the decision, the
action item, the important next step.
That's where Granola comes in. Granola
is an AI powered notepad for meetings.
You jot down rough notes like you always
do. And in the background, Granola
transcribes and turns them into clear,
useful notes when the meeting ends.
There are no bots joining your calls. No
distractions, just a clean notepad that
helps you focus. During or after the
call, you can chat with your notes. You
can ask Granola to pull out action
items, help you negotiate, make a
decision, write a follow-up email, and
so much more. I even use it when I'm
listening to podcasts. Once you try it
on a first meeting, it's hard to go
without. Head to granola.ai/shane
and get three months free with the code
shane. That's granola.ai/shane.
[music]
Most things worth having in life reward
focus. Dating should too. The leak is
built for people like me who know who
they are and what they want. Instead of
endless options, it delivered me a
curated set of profiles each day, so my
time and attention stay directed towards
what matters. What stood out to me most
is the community. High-quality people
who are intentional and serious about
building something real. If you're ready
to approach dating the same way you
approach the rest of your life with
clarity and purpose, this is worth your
attention. The League. Find someone in
yours. Download the app and apply today.
>> [music]
>> What do you look for with people when
you're hiring people? Like you guys
hired a CEO for the MoMA. How did you go
about doing that?
>> Well, it's interesting. my my thesis on
investing for example, my thesis on
hiring people
and kind of my thesis on how I reach out
in my life to other people is predicated
on how I feel
in the first case about the founder and
in the second case about people that I
meet and I like to meet interesting
people and I am very lucky
very lucky in that I get to meet some of
the most interesting people in the world
from all walks of life in every
profession. You know, when I was in the
agency business in the 70s,
I realized that the entertainment
business was a closedend ecosystem
and basically
everything was about the entertainment
business. There was no life outside the
entertainment business. There were very
few people with other interests other
than content. There were very few people
that collected art in the entertainment
business. There were very few people
that talked at dinner about anything
except entertainment and a little tiny
bit about politics, but it was mostly
about gossip and about, you know,
clients and about
who made what
trouble someone was in. All things that
I found absolutely
uninteresting.
And I made it a point to take myself
away from the business, go to New York
every single week, build a presence in
the art community, in the theater
community,
in part of the intellectual community
because I didn't want to be one of those
kind of onehorse people. I always
admired people that had great depth and
breadth and could talk about many things
and I practiced what I preached. We had
at the agency in 74
a 200
single line list bibliography
of monthly magazines and books to look
at because and they weren't in a
singular space and I had at one time and
I was a magazine junkie. I don't know if
you know this but the you probably
aren't aware of this but there wasn't
always an internet. Did you know that?
No.
>> Yeah. [laughter]
And I used to get over 200 magazines a
month at my office or house or both. And
every single day I'd thumb through 10 or
15 of them. And I'd I'd tear out things
I needed to read in depth. [snorts]
Those were the days of long form, not
short form, like today where no one has
any attention span. So all the things
that are written or except in the New
York or in the Atlantic or or an
in-depth piece in, you know, the Post or
the Times, [clears throat] but
it was a time to learn a little bit
about everything. And it kept proving
itself to me over and over again. And
the reason I did it at first was
practical. Our agents needed to be able
to be fil in multiple disciplines to
talk to different people who all had
different interests. So when I met Paul
Newman,
it was very easy for me to engage with
him
>> because I subscribed to Car and Driver
Motor Trend Automobile
and one other car magaz.
And I'd looked at them and I was really
deeply into automobiles, but more in the
aesthetic sense. I really didn't know
much how they worked. But when I met
Paul is the first thing he wanted to
talk about. We laid some common
denominator together. And I would preach
that to the staff that you need to stay
on top of multi-disciplinary
careers, functions, and interests and
hobbies so you have something to talk
about. Um, you know, I read Scientific
America not diligently, but I read the
headlines, looked at, you know, the
opening five paragraphs of an article to
get a sense of it. Everything you needed
in those days, by the way, in a detailed
article was in the opening and the
closing when you get down to it.
>> And I wanted I was interested in
medicine. So I read the New England
Journal of Medicine. I you know worked
very hard to raise money for the UCLA
Medical Center. I was the chairman of
the hospital for many years. I had to
look at the New England Journal of
Medicine to talk to the 20 department
heads. When I brought IMP to design and
build the UCLA Medical Center after the
earthquake,
I needed to have a fluent understanding
of other architects so I could give
context and of the 20 department heads
who were the tops of the top in their
particular field. Now look, I didn't
learn [clears throat]
how to perform a procedure medically,
but I at least got some vocabulary, and
I could kind of stay up into a
conversation for a period of time. At
the height of CIA, you guys had 70% of
the market, I think, if I remember
correctly. How did you stay grounded?
What specific things did you do to not
let that go to your head? Well,
you know, first of all, I believed that
all the publicity that I got, both good
and bad, was nonsense.
Same people that put said good things
about me later would write bad things
about me and then they'd write good
things and bad things.
None of it phased me, frankly. Um, did
you read it? Yeah, I read it because I
wanted to have context, but
I thought these power lists that they
developed in the entertainment business
were just sheer nonsense because there's
no such thing as power. It doesn't
exist. And when people would say this
one's the second most or the 10th most
or you're the most powerful, it's all
nonsense because
it's an ephemeral thing power and it's
fleeting and it doesn't last. And if you
don't believe that, take a look at
anyone that's had it. It's you it's like
a lease. It has a closed end and never a
good one. So I never believed in it. I
believed in my family which composed of
my nuclear family, my three kids
[snorts] and my business family. That
was my life. I believed in that and I
protected both with privacy.
We were very private at home. There were
no pictures of my kids anywhere. I
wouldn't allow pictures of them taken.
I didn't like anyone at the agency
talking to the press giving trash about
stuff.
>> We did have another rule that it was
inappropriate to badmouth non-clients
product because that was a age-old trick
in the entertainment business. Try to
start a drum roll of negativity. And
when I was 22, I met a manager
who was quite successful in the
business.
I liked him a lot,
but he had a horrible habit of bad
mouthing everybody. And it became clear
to me 6 months into the relationship
that he did that because he was insecure
in a meeting. He thought it made himself
look better
>> when in reality it made him look really
weak and unappreciative. I remember
sitting with him in his office and he
was bad mouthing his partner who
actually was a nice guy. Not the
sharpest tool in the shed, but a very
nice guy. Didn't deserve that. So we
wouldn't you at our place, you weren't
allowed to badmouth anybody. If you
don't have something nice to say, don't
say it. And if you got a problem, take
them in their office, shut the door, and
let it out and fight it out and then
shake hands, but don't drag it on. It
doesn't make any sense. I always uh you
know, when I'm on the receiving end of
this and somebody's saying something
negative about somebody else, I'm always
wondering like, what are they saying
about me? You know, like there's no
discretion there.
>> Well, you can count on them saying
something negative about you even if
there's nothing negative to say. Some
people exist in a sea of negativity. We
were I tried to set a stage for us to
exist in a sea of positiveness and not
to badmouth people and just try to as I
say be more English, you know.
>> Um, so one of the traits that you look
for just coming back out of this rabbit
hole we get into was sort of voracious
reading and learning and always curious.
What are the other things that stand out
that you're looking for in people
whether you invest in them or just want
spend time with them?
>> Well, investing is very simple for me.
I've been investing in tech now since
and full-time since 2001.
And I transitioned out of the media
business in about 0 2003 or four. I sold
every asset that I had and I went
full-time into tech [clears throat]
investing and tech consulting
and nothing changed for me. Nothing
changed for me.
>> So, what are the attributes you're
looking for in founders that you would
look for in anybody else? What what
indicators are there that somebody is
likely to be successful?
>> It's pretty simple actually. Founders
need to be uh passionate. They need to
be deep into their idea. They need to
have a lot of ideas about what they want
to do with their idea. They need to be
connected to people that can help them
get their idea started. They have to be
open to critique. They can't be
arrogant. It's critical they're not
arrogant. I find that arrogant founders
have a tendency to fail more than
non-arrogant founders. They have to have
the ability to tell you their ideas in
succinct
ways.
They have to be really enthusiastic.
And it's funny when you're a director
and you're interviewing an actor or an
actress, you're kind of looking for the
same things. The only difference is when
you're looking at a Marty Scorsese, who
I have unbelievable respect for, taught
me most about the movie business that I
know and said to me, I'm always looking
at their eyes. I'm kind of not looking
at that when I'm interviewing a founder,
but they're not actors, right? And I
don't want them to be.
>> Yeah.
>> But other than that, the packaging
of a film or a television show or a
record or a book is no different than
the packaging of an idea for a digital
company, for a company in technology.
It's all the same. The founder is the
creator,
the
VCs, the money in tech, the studio or
the distributor, the money in the
entertainment business, and then you go
to the marketing. They both need to be
marketed and you got to find a
distributor
and you got to give them both advice.
It's very much the same. Uh Ben Horwitz
and Mark Andre pointed that out to me in
1999.
They both looked at me and said, "You do
exactly what we do." And that was like
an epiphany moment for me. [snorts]
>> I love the first meeting you had with
Andre where he showed up and asked you
to be on the board. Maybe you can tell
that story.
>> Well, I got a cold call from a mutual
friend of ours, Ron Conway. great
investor, fabulous human being, one of
the nicest men on the planet, great
well-loved up in San Francisco. And we
knew each other through UCLA because he
was he had a kid down there and we had
uh I was, you know, running the board at
the hospital and we had had some contact
on some personal issues and he said,
"I've got a guy I want you to meet." And
I said, "Who's that?" He said, "Mark
Andre." And I said, "Who is it?" He
said, 'Well, he's really smart. You're
going to really like him. He wants to
meet you. And of course, I said, 'Why
would he want to meet me? What do I have
to offer this guy? He said, "Shut up and
just meet the guy." And I said, "Okay."
Cuz Ron was that kind of guy. If he
said, "Meet him. I'm going to meet him."
And that, by the way, is continued in my
life. If people I respect say to me,
"Meet the guy." Even if I don't want to,
or the gal, I will do it. And it just
worked for me on a company which we can
talk about later that we just announced
last week that we incubated where I met
someone that I refused to meet but
someone I respect said you better meet
him. But Andre came down to meet me and
he picked a restaurant someplace and I
budgeted an hour for the meeting because
I thought it was a complete waste of my
time. and he came in a pair of shorts
that were striped with a kind of flower
Hawaiian shirt. And um
I had never seen that look in Hollywood,
but [laughter] he we sat down and we
started talking.
We spent three hours together. I was
mesmerized by this guy. And then he had
me meet Ben and I was mesmerized by him.
They were extraordinary people who were
in a world I didn't know existed and
they asked me to go on the board of this
new company and I asked them what it did
and they told me and I said I don't
understand I really didn't understand it
at the time. The reason I didn't
understand it this is 1999
they developed a cloud.
>> Mhm.
>> I I couldn't understand what they were
talking about. Where is it? [laughter]
You know where how do you plug it in?
Where does it get power? What is it? And
they had thought this through in 1999.
>> Oh my god.
>> And they developed a company called
LoudCloud.
>> Yeah.
>> And then they said to me, "We'd like you
on the board." And I said, "Guys, I'm
really enjoying talking to you guys,
>> but I'm an idiot about this stuff. What
do you want me on the board for? I don't
even understand what product we're
selling at this company."
And to their credit, they said, "We want
someone
who's not beholding to anyone in Silicon
Valley, [clears throat] someone who
thinks out of the box, and someone who's
fearless at going up against the other
people on the board." And I said, "Okay,
I can do that." And I did it.
Where does that fearlessness come from?
You have never seemed to shy away from
confrontation.
You know, it's funny, Shane. I don't
know if that's good or bad, by the way.
I have to this day haven't decided. It's
funny that you asked that question
because I was discussing it yesterday uh
with tomorrow, the woman that uh I am
with and uh she's English and very uh
elegant and charming and uh very
mannered. Uh I'm not English. Um, days I
can be charming, days I can be not
charming and tough. Um, we're talking
about
confrontation.
So, she doesn't like it, but will do it
if pushed. Uh, for me, it's a tool in
the toolkit. That's all it is. I do a
lot of things for friends of mine that
are in trouble because
I have been viewed by a lot of my
friends as the world's best friend and
the world's worst enemy because I'm just
black and white loyal. It's the way I've
been my whole life. I'm very loyal to my
friends, to my family, and to people
that have done things for me. You know,
at CA, we kept a list
of every single executive that helped us
in the first three or five years that
then had trouble. And we got everyone a
job. And if we couldn't get them a job,
we made sure they had money because they
helped us when we had nothing. And boy,
there were a lot of people on the list
because the entertainment business is
not good to elderly people. It's not
Japan and it's not uh it doesn't have a
good memory and we did.
>> That's an incredible I've never heard
that before.
>> Well, don't share it much. But we had at
one time [snorts] I think we had at one
time close to 400 people on a list that
were either fired, weren't working, or
fell on hard times. There was a writer
that we had on the list that was about
as important a writer as there was in
the television business in the 60s.
And
we had asked him when he was really
important to write an episode of a
halfhour comedy for a client that we had
just signed that really needed the the
job. And he did it. And 20 years later,
the guy called me and he said
very simply that he had hit a dead end.
He couldn't get a job anywhere, any
place. And he was older and he was very
nice, but he timed out. His kind of
style
>> was gone.
>> And um in a staff meeting, I told
everyone this story that I just told
you. I said, "We're going to legislate a
job for this guy. This is not just
giving him a check. He needs his dignity
back." And we went out and in two weeks
we got him a job. And that was our duty.
That wasn't our choice.
And yeah, in that was some confrontation
cuz people tried to blow us off the
phone saying they wouldn't do it. And we
used the confrontational tactic to get
him the job. So you have to say to
yourself, what's more important? Some
people will say confrontation's
horrible. I have a lot of friends that
won't get into a confrontation. And I'm
in the school that occasionally it's
necessary. When indeed you're
confronted,
I don't think any of us have any choice
but to respond. You can't just let it
go. You can't let people walk all over
you or your clients.
That's an incredible story.
Do you think that makes you a hard
target?
>> Oh, I was I wasn't going to win any
popularity contest, but I will tell you
what I said to people.
I wasn't I didn't go into business to
win a popularity contest. I went into
business to win. And I'm a monopolist. I
believe in Peter Teal's theory on
monopoly. I don't believe that you
should have competition.
They have to be eliminated.
That's the American way in my opinion.
Everyone says there's always room for
competition. I don't think there's any
room for competition. I don't want
anyone to be as good as us. I want us to
be the best. If you want to have a
second or third choice, that's okay. But
we're the first choice. So, we had to be
the best. And I don't I didn't I wasn't
running for high school president, you
know. I had already done that. I won
that at a 4,000 kid high school. I was
president. I don't think I was made
president cuz I was popular. Frankly, I
was made president cuz I got stuff done.
And people knew that. I've been that way
my whole life. You ask me to do
something, I'll get it done. When I need
something done, I ask the busiest person
I know to do it because they'll get it
done. Ask someone with too much time, it
never gets done.
>> That's so true. I I've been thinking a
lot about the coming back to the dignity
thing for a second and allowing people
to keep their dignity.
Well, when people help you, and it
wasn't in the long-term culture of the
entertainment business, short-term, it's
try, you know, the entertainment is a
transactional friendship business. Are
these people really your friends? I'm
not so sure, you know, but while they
can help you, they're your friends. But
if someone helped us get started and we
started from scratch on card tables
with no money, we ran out of money the
third week we were in business and we
got sued by our former employer and we
didn't even have money to defend
ourselves. I had to handle that without
a lawyer. You have to reach out and you
have to help people. here's a guy who
helped us when we needed it and 10 years
later he's he can't get a job and he
doesn't feel too good about himself. um
you know time passed by that happens to
all of us you know but unless you stay
current see that's my thesis as long as
I'm learning and consulting for young
founders I'm going to stay current
because I learn something every day
every single day I can't wait to get up
in the morning I meet with the most
interesting humans on the planet every
day I get pitched ideas by young
entrepreneurs
that make me really believe in this
country. You know, I am not worried
about foreign competition.
Yeah, China may have robots that are
great, but we got people that are
unbelievably smart. And our system
just works really well. You know, I was
um
I was in London [clears throat] with
Tamara. She's English from London and a
group of businessmen asked to have a
roundt session with me because they a
one of their friends was having a
problem and one of the friends in their
friend group knew me pretty well or knew
tomorrow and they set up a a lunch for
me and
the subject fascinated me and it's why I
took the lunch. It was a subject of the
lunch was why are American business
people so much better than everyone else
in the world? Why is that?
And that was the second time in my life
that I'd been approached with that
question. The other time was in Japan
when I would go there once a month to
deal with all the Japanese companies
that I consulted for in media and in
consumer businesses.
And we went to the lunch and the guy who
set up the lunch opened the meeting and
posed the question to the table.
And I asked each guy what they did. And
we went around the table. And when we
got to the last guy,
which I knew what he did because I had
been briefed and I saved him till the
end, he said, "My name's so and so and
uh I was in this business and this is
what I did." And I said, "And what are
you doing now?" He said, "Well, I'm
moving toad."
I said, "Oh, you like to ski, huh?" And
he was in his mid4s, late 40s, I think.
I don't remember. And he said, "No, I
don't like skiing particularly." I said,
"You have kids?" He said, "Yeah, I'm
going to put them in school there." I
said, "And where have you lived the last
20 years?" In London. I said, "Why are
you leaving?" He said, "Well, my
business just went under." I said, "Oh,
okay." And
why are you leaving? He said, "Well, I'm
done." I said, "What do you mean you're
done?" He said, "Well, I'm so
embarrassed. We went bankrupt." And he
said, 'I had to fire like 800 people or
something. I said, 'Yeah, so what? He
said, 'What do you mean, so what? I
said, 'So what? You went bankrupt. You
didn't do it on purpose, did you? He
said, no, we had a bad business cycle.
Our one of our products fell off a
cliff. We had a great product, but we
didn't back it up. We made some
fundamental mistakes. He said, "So, I I
want to get out of the city. I I'm kind
of embarrassed." I said, 'Well, our
dinner, our lunch is over.'
And everyone said, 'What are you
talking? We haven't even gotten served.
I said, 'Well, you asked me, why are
American businessmen and women better
than others? And I said, we just got a
demonstration of it. Failure in American
society is a badge of honor. We all
fail. I've failed in a lot of things.
You fail, Shane, you just get back up on
your horse and you keep riding. I've had
tons of failures, but doesn't stop me
from trying to be great again. And this
guy, by the time I got done, got all
pumped up and actually cancelled his
move and went and started another
business because he thought that he was
walking around. People were talking
about him. And I said, "Yeah, they're
talking about everybody because if they
can see a weak spot, it makes them feel
better to badmouth you. What has that
got to do with you? What do you care?
Let them say whatever they want. Just
prove them wrong. And bottom line,
failure's part, you know, Michael Kiteon
was one of my closest friends in my life
till the till he passed away. We talked
every day of the week, seven days a
week, and he gave me the best advice. He
said, you know, every time I made a
mistake or I got some bad publicity or
something, he'd call me and he'd make
light out of it. And he'd always said to
me, "Just remember something, Michael.
My call." I said, "What?" He said,
"There's always another rodeo."
I said, 'Really? I said, 'Since when are
you a cowboy? And he said, trust me, you
did that. It didn't work next case. And
I believed him and I lived that life my
whole life.
>> Are there any other lessons you learned
from Michael Carton? You said, I think
in the past, that he was the smartest
person you knew. Well, he was the
smartest person until I met Mark Andre
and then I had the greatest lunch of my
life where I put them in a room with me
and I put one on each end of the table
and me in the middle and I felt like I
was at Wimbledon or the US Open.
[laughter] I never sat through three
hours like that in my life. This was a
intellectual
sword fight that was so cool. It was
unbelievable. And they both loved it. It
was unreal. both incredibly well read.
Both
recall that's
extraordinary. Both um widely read,
which is insane.
And I learned a lot from those guys even
at that part of my life, which was my
midpart of my life, which
god this was
25 years ago and 20 years ago. And
they're both deeply read. They are both
curious about everything.
It's unbelievable. They share these
traits. They're the same people in that
way.
What drives you today?
>> Oh, only one thing. There are two things
that drive me. Uh,
one are my five grandchildren who I'm in
love with and I love
um,
I just love hanging out with them. My
four kids who are I have two boys, two
girls. They're they've grown into just
amazing human beings
and they're parenting so much better
than I did, frankly. It's unbelievable.
>> How can you say that though if your kids
turned into amazing human beings?
because they're just better with their
kids than I was with them. Because I
came from a household post World War II
with a very strict father and I
parenting in the 50s,60s,7s,
80s
was very different than parenting today.
I see it with my kids how they handle
their children and they're doing a great
job. just different than the way I did
it. But the other thing that's important
to me is I can't wait to get up in the
morning and meet with a founder who's
just,
you know, developed a submarine that has
no crew that has defense capabilities
for the country and you can't see it.
It's stealth.
or
I've got a young guy I've done I've
already done one company with him. I'm
doing another one. His name's Nema
Gamsari. I met him 17 years ago. He was
assigned to me at Palunteer when I was
one of the adviserss to Alex Karp who's
a brilliant guy. I was introduced to him
by Peter Teal who had invested a lot of
money in Palunteer and there was no
income. He asked me to help monetize it,
which shows that you don't have to be
totally technical to be in the tech
world. And Nemo was assigned to me to
answer technical questions cuz he was a
genius engineer.
We started a company together. He had an
idea that he could put a company
together
uh called Blend, it's now public, that
does mortgages on your phone in
[clears throat] under 10 clicks. Now, he
came up with another idea. I just got
him all the funding including from us
and uh we're I'm doing the marketing and
he's hired the right engineers and it's
a total incubation.
I can't tell you how much fun it is and
I can't tell you how much I'm learning
because I'm not an engineer but I love
the idea and I can help in the
non-technical stuff that's critical to
you know how do what are the nuts and
bolts of building a business? How do you
build a culture? How do you write a
budget? You know, how do you market the
product? How do you make sales? Who do
you hire to do sales? Who do you hire to
be your early 10 employees? You know,
there's so many things to be done. And
these are young people that I've learned
something fascinating, which is this
generation in tech.
They just want to know.
They don't want to know what you've
done. That's great. They want to know
what you failed at and how to avoid it.
It is so fantastic
that the way they think is so
counterintuitive.
>> What would be an example of that?
>> An example of that is I got a call year
five years ago when I published my book
from Patrick Collinsson at Stripe.
>> And I think the Collinsson brothers are
two of the smartest guys in the
business. And Patrick invited me to
lunch. I went over and I sit down at a
picnic table after going through the
cafeteria line and he said, "Are you
ready?" I said, "Yeah, I'm hungry." and
I see my book sitting there with a
zillion postit sticking out of it. He
said, "Okay, let's start." I said, "What
are we starting?" He said, "I have
marked every place in your book where
you said you made a mistake."
>> I said, "Oh, okay." And he said, "I want
to know the conditions that you were
under when you made the decision, what
you might have done differently, and
what would have happened if you did it
differently." And we sat there for three
hours. And what I realized is he didn't
care about any of the good things I did
or any of the things that turned out to
be successful or kind of revolutionary
in the entertainment. Wasn't interested.
No interest. Wouldn't know the mistakes
so he wouldn't make them. That to me was
not smart. It was wise. That was a grade
above
normal. What's an example of a mistake
you made that we can learn from?
>> Oh, I could just pick one. You got 20
hours. I can tell you I got all the time
in the world. I've made so many mistakes
in in my business life, in my personal
life, in my art collecting. And that's
why I did that launch in London because
it hasn't stopped me. I don't look back.
It's history. I don't look back. I build
on it. And there are a lot of cultures
that don't believe in that and we're not
one of them. You know, we're 200 years
old here. We live in what I think is the
greatest country in the history of
mankind.
And it's all about what you can do and
pull yourself up by your own bootstraps.
Don't give up. You know, create that
momentum. It's okay to be competitive.
It's okay to be in a capitalist system.
I I must say I marvel.
I got into a huge I shouldn't talk about
this on your podcast, but I got into a
huge argument with a friend of my
daughters. Um she's a rising young
executive at Vogue. She's 23, following
in her mother's footsteps. She's a great
kid and sophisticated and smart and
personable and sensitive. She's got all
the stuff. One of her friends made a
comment, and I make it a policy never to
discuss politics at the dinner table cuz
I always get in trouble. And one of her
friends said to me, said to the table
that he had decided to support the
[clears throat] mayoral candidate who
happens to be a socialist.
>> And some people think he's a communist.
I'm not sure which he is. I don't know.
I've seen a lot of his uh I've seen a
lot of information on him because I'm
fascinated by this dynamic
and I've listened to all of his campaign
promises and I'm not a socialist. I
believe in charity toward helping people
and I do a lot of that. But I believe
that capitalists create jobs and that
creates a system. And I said to the guy,
"What school did you go to?" And he
named a big fancy Ivy League school. and
probably one I couldn't get into. And I
said, "Well, did you take any history?"
He said, "Yes, quite a bit." I said,
"Great." I said, "Can you name me one
system
in the last 2,000 years
that has worked that's not capitalism,
socialism, communism, dictator?"
>> Just name me one that you learned at
your Ivy League school. dead silence
because there isn't one. Any, you know,
dictators can have long runs, some
longer than others, but at the end they
all lose. [snorts] Autocrats all lose.
And democratic capitalist societies
win. Now, will we go up and down?
Absolutely. But is this the best system?
Unequivocally.
Is it good to have a socialist? I don't
think so. [snorts] We've seen that
party, that movie before, and it doesn't
work.
>> How do you think that woke culture has
influenced not only universities, which
you're seeing firsthand, but also like
film and TV and
>> Well, I think that look, the roots of
woke culture had some merit, the roots.
>> And then like anything else in West Los
Angeles, they just carried it too far.
>> [snorts]
>> They took it instead of letting it go
from one side of the metronome to the
middle, they took it all the way to the
other side. And I think it contributed
to the
demise of the content business in
Hollywood right now. I think the content
business is in the worst place it's ever
been. And I think this forced wokeness
has not been productive. I think at the
beginning the ideas were wonderful. I
don't think that people should be
predatory on each other. By the way,
that's the history of the entertainment
business. It needed to stop. You know,
it needed to stop. But once it was made
known, it didn't need to keep going. And
it did. And I think it forced bad
creative decision. And it forced our
audiences who don't all think that way
to go narrow on us and to not want to
see the things that we did. Things that
the liberal left in Hollywood think are
fantastic may not work for the other
half of the country. When I grew up, we
made movies that everyone wanted to
watch. We didn't care what your
political persuasion was. When we did
Ghostbusters, I don't care if you're a
liberal or a conservative. We just want
you to laugh, you know, Meatball
Stripes. When we did Casino or Good
Fellows with Marty,
not interested in your politics. We just
want you to watch the movie and enjoy
it. So, we didn't enter political
discussions. I didn't even allow
political discussions to take place in
meetings. I didn't want to get involved
with our clients politics.
>> Do you think there's a world in the
future where you and I are watching the
same show and the actual show is
different even though we think we're
watching the same show with content on
demand and AI and it goes your uh your
political dispositions and what I know
about you. I'm going to give you this
version and my political dispositions
and what I know about you, I'm going to
give you a slightly different version.
You know, it's a it's a great question
because I just had this debate at lunch
today. Um, I'll give you the analogy.
First of all, the answer is I I don't
ever in technology count anything out.
So, could it happen? Absolutely. Because
the technology is actually there to do
it. Netflix is already uh done
experiments with you change the ending.
Here's, you know, four different
endings. you put that your own ending on
the film, but
I think that the reality
of
all of this we see a little bit now in
AI.
>> I think when you go to the AI
websites,
I think the different AI companies have
the personalities of the engineers that
are
programming them. And I think you see
that bias in the information you're
given. You sure saw it in the early
days.
>> Oh, definitely. I think they just do a
better job of hiding it,
>> but I think it's still there. [snorts]
>> How do you manage to keep up with the
information flow? How do you prioritize?
>> I don't.
>> I don't. I'm overwhelmed.
>> Do you have
>> Well, I have in my office right now here
in New York. Yeah. my office at home in
my office in the in on Madison Avenue
stacks of articles to read and treates
and thought pieces. I'm on the Council
of Foreign Relations. I never get to
finish the monthly as much as I want to.
I I got articles from the Atlantic
stripped out of the magazine sitting in
a pile. I'm overwhelmed with information
and um
I I love discovery. So, there's just not
enough hours in the day. And I've got a
horrible habit of wanting to start going
down rabbit holes late at night.
And you learn that from your young
engineers cuz they stay up all night,
but then they go to sleep. And I stay up
all night. I don't go to sleep. That's
pretty taxing.
>> Are you an early riser, too?
>> Yeah, I am. I'm a very early riser. And
I do my best thinking in the morning. my
very best thinking in the morning.
>> What's your routine after you get out of
bed?
>> Um, it's the same every day of my life.
Seven days a week, I uh get up.
Um,
if I'm
here, it's easier. I mean, harder cuz I
have to take our dog around the block or
we have an accident in the apartment. If
I'm in LA, we just open [clears throat]
the door. It's a lot easier. Saves me 10
minutes. Uh, I come right back. I get
his food. I get something to drink for
myself. And then I sit down at my desk
and I read the same things every single
morning.
>> What are those things?
>> First thing I read, believe it or not,
is the New York Post. I read the New
York Post because I love the way they
report the news. It's short. I can get a
snapshot of what's going on very
quickly. I think Keith Pool's an amazing
editor. He's English. He's very smart.
They have some very good reporters.
And I get it short and fast and then I
get a few laughs and I don't spend a lot
of time on it because there's nothing
long, you know, so I can do it in very
short time frame. I then go right to
TechCrunch. I read two or three tech
websites that give me information about
what's going on. I like to read the
information. I think Jessica Lesson's
really smart. And then I um I read,
believe it or not, I scan the headlines
of the Drudge Report. Takes me two
minutes cuz I like to see their point of
view cuz it's so different than mine. I
always like to be balanced. So when I
watch news tomorrow and I watch three
news sources instead of one. We won't
watch one news source. So we'll watch
CNN, Fox, and Sky News cuz you can have
the same news reporter, which you do
daily, and a different spin on all
three. So I don't agree with any of the
three. So I guess we get the most
neutral spin out of Sky News. Um, and
then I jump right into
uh the Financial Times, Wall Street
Journal,
the New York Times, the LA Times, and
the Washington Post. And I go right
through those like a hot knife through
butter digitally.
>> What are you looking for when you're
you're skimming?
>> I'm looking for headlines.
I'm looking for pictures because they
often wouldn't appear if the editor
didn't. I'm I like to look through the
lens that the editor does. Editors of
newspapers and magazines are really much
smarter and wiser than they're given
credit for because they kind of tell you
what's important. They tell you by the
placement in the publication. They tell
you if there's a bigger headline, a sub
headline, and a picture. You can program
yourself for that. So, those are things
I tend to notice first.
>> I like those tells
>> And uh they're it's like, you know,
they're tells. That's all they are. And
they educate me. And I'm I you know,
someone asked me if I thought that, you
know, journalism would be dead. I said,
"No, just the opposite. I think branded
journalism is more important than ever.
The most important people on the planet
are journalists and editors. They kind
of feed us our menu in a strange way. I
don't agree with people that sit and
read things cover to cover because you
can't equally weight everything between
the covers. It's not possible. It's
stupid. Frankly, one of the most
interesting answers I've heard to that
question is Warren Buffett. And he says
when he's reading, he's not reading for
your opinion. He's reading for the
facts. So, he's reading to collect
factual information and formulate his
own opinion, but he basically ignores
the opinion of the writer.
>> I couldn't agree with him more. I have
zero interest in anybody's opinion
unless it's an op-ed piece. Then I know
it's an opinion, and that's okay cuz
I've looked for it. I don't want an
opinion in a factual news piece. I'm not
interested in what,
you know, somebody thinks when they're
writing about something that's happened
in the Middle East that it's not this,
it's not that. There's reasons for all
of it. Do I agree with them? No. Or
sometimes yes. But I don't want the
writer's opinion.
>> There's a quote in your book, and I'm
going to paraphrase here, but it
basically says, "Mediocrity is invisible
until passion shines a light on it."
What did you mean by that? exactly what
it says. Um, first of all, mediocrity to
me is a disease that you have to get rid
of at all costs. I can't stand talking
to people that suffer from that disease
where they have no interest. You know,
sometimes you sit blindly next to
someone at a dinner party and you try to
talk to them and they have no interest
in anything and I just can't deal with
it because I want to be challenged. I
want to be pushed. I want to be asked
questions. I want to be told I'm wrong.
I wanted that kid at that dinner in
front of the other 10 young people, my
daughter's friends, to defend his
position.
>> But what happened is in one sentence
that I gave him, he couldn't defend it.
It was indefensible.
But I wanted to argue with him in front
of everybody. I will say if you're
you're going to go socialist, I much
prefer the New York path of like you go
from capitalism to extreme socialism
because I feel like the system will
reject that versus Canada which is like
a slow march into kind of socialism.
>> Yeah, I I have a problem with it at any
level because I think one thing leads to
the next.
>> I'm a huge hater of communism.
>> It's never worked. I've read Markx. I've
read Linen.
You know, it all sounds great in theory,
but it doesn't work. Just it's like
anything else. Not all doctors are as
good as each other. Some are just more
gifted. Some are better surgeons. Some
are better diagnosticians.
Some know more about your intestines
than they do about your heart. Sometimes
you need a specialist. It's there's no
such thing as ealitarian in anything.
Some of my teachers in high school were
better than others. They just were. They
were more interesting. They did stuff
that was different. You know, leaders
are some of them are more interesting
than others. You know, we've got
horrible leadership in in Los Angeles
right now. We had that fire.
>> You know, a woman who's our mayor who is
very nice, but she has no idea what
she's doing. She's never run a business
and she's running a budget of of one of
the biggest corporations in the country.
It's called LA. You know, it's the same
with New York. We've got a guy running
for mayor here who's never run a he's
never had a job.
>> He's never had a job. My thesis, which a
lot of people in discussions, and I
bring it up everywhere I go, I feel that
if you're going to run in this country
for mayor, governor,
president, or vice president, you better
have five years of having run a
business, any kind of business. You
could have a mom and pop store with five
employees. But something with a balance
sheet, sales, marketing, health care
plan. You got to know how to do it. We
have a mayor in LA
that is
not getting anything fixed. And it's not
she doesn't know how to. She doesn't
know how to. and the city rejected a guy
that ran for mayor that was a
businessman because maybe
[clears throat] he was too rich or his
suits were too expensive or but the guy
was head of the police commissioner.
It's like we were talking at dinner last
night in this city. I can't understand
any city that has a defund the police
>> Oh yeah. That's
>> a defund the police campaign.
>> Yeah.
>> I walk around London, I don't feel safe.
>> No. Because the government there is
taking the police off the street. I walk
around New York, I feel great. I feel
great because there's a lot of police
out. The police are the most
maligned service people in the world.
Who wants that job?
>> What a terrible job. And they we get
these men and women that do it. Hey, do
they make mistakes? Yeah. But are the
mistakes worth
throwing out the whole system? I don't
think so. I don't think so.
>> I liked uh Michael Bloomberg when he was
mayor of New York. I loved the fact
whether you agree with his politics or
not. I love the fact that somebody so
experienced and so successful in
business came in.
>> You know what? I love Mike Bloomberg as
a person and as a mayor. Mike Bloomberg
got stuff done. Mike Bloomberg built a
business from scratch. I met him when he
first started that business. Mike
Bloomberg, truth be known, was fired
from Solomon Brothers and started what's
one of the biggest and best creative
businesses in the country. He comes into
the city with the same passion, ethos,
and organization. You talk about
momentum. Mike Bloomberg got stuff done
in this city and he didn't stand on
ceremony. And even things that he
couldn't get through, he paid for
himself. and you felt safe in the city.
You didn't feel like somebody was going
to come up and and rob you because you
knew Bloomberg had the police's back.
And this concept, I think Jessica Tish
has done a phenomenal job here. You
know, there are those that say she comes
from a wealthy family. Well, I say who
cares?
>> Yeah.
>> You know, she's been amazing. And the
fact that this current candidate
hasn't even talked about whether he'd
keep her or not
>> and that he wants to defund the police
and turn this place into chaos.
>> I don't get it. I I just can't see the
logic. I don't care how charismatic is.
It doesn't make any sense to me. Do you
think if somebody like Mike Bloomberg
comes in, it seems from the outside, at
least from my perspective, he's
immediately successful when he comes in.
like the momentum builds right away. And
I'm curious as to other aspects of life,
like do you think if something works, it
tends to work right away and you can
feel it, you can see it, and the
momentum's building, or is it a slow
process where it's like, give me more
time. Give me more time.
>> I think momentum is like a train coming
out of a station. It doesn't happen
instantaneously. You have to build it.
It's a conscious building block game.
It's like when you were a kid, you had
blocks to build. You have to have
foundation before you can build the
house. And Bloomberg did it. It didn't
all happen the first six months. It was
a It literally took time to get up to
speed and he did it.
>> But the key is he didn't stop till he
left.
>> And when you're building momentum, you
cannot quit.
>> And that's the counter problem,
counterargument to when we talked about
cutting back. When you're building
momentum, you don't want to stop. even
for 10% of your time, you don't want to
stop.
>> I'm curious if you were putting together
a business education, what would be on
the curriculum?
>> It's a fascinating question. Um, I was
actually thinking about that cuz my
grandson started a new school here in
Tribeca yesterday that's called the
Alpha School. And it's a completely
different
um angle on education. I really like
what I saw. And a lot of it's practical
learning.
>> A lot of it's learning by with things
you're interested in.
And
I just believe
that in one's life, they have to be on a
constant and progressive learning curve
period about anything. I was up in the
valley once and Max Levchin is a great
guy, founded a firm in PayPal,
co-founder of PayPal. And I remember
sitting in his office. We were going to
have coffee. He said, "Come with me."
And he took me to the coffee room and
then proceeded to spend 10 minutes
explaining to me how you brew the
perfect cup of coffee. And I realized
it was so fantastic. He had studied it
all. He knew exactly what to do when,
how to roast the coffee, how to grind
it, where to [clears throat] put it in,
what kind of water to use. All stuff
that none of us think about. And I said
to myself, that is a metaphor for life,
making a cup of coffee. It's kind of
like a Japanese tea ceremony. He took
all the components apart and isolated
them and then put them into a fluid
movement.
>> That's incredible. I love coffee, too.
So, I I could relate to that. How do you
think about momentum?
>> Momentum to me is the single most
important thing in in anything we do.
>> Double click on that.
>> It's important in in life to keep
momentum going of your interests and
your family. In business, if you don't
have momentum, you have no business. In
sports, momentum changes.
Second place teams to first place teams.
Momentum may be one of the most
underutilized, most critical thing in
life. If you were trying to teach
somebody how to get momentum, what would
you tell them?
>> I don't think getting momentum is a
science. It's more an art form.
>> I think that momentum is about
extraordinarily hard industrious work.
It's about deeply educating yourself in
your field, deeply educating yourself in
the peripheries of your field, knowing
who your competitors are. How do you uh
recruit people that are really good that
aren't on your side of the ledger? I
don't think a meeting went by in any
business I've ever been in where I don't
ask the people around the table, who
have you seen out there that's good, who
beat you last week or yesterday or
today, who's standing out? We recruited
some of our best executives that way.
Matter of fact, we recruited I'd say 80%
of our executives like that. We either
grew them inside or recruited them from
the competition because they had our
standards and they were at the wrong
place in our mind. How do you think
about leverage?
>> Well, it's tough. It's a controversial
subject. Um, there are those who feel
leverage is critical in business and
there are those that feel leverage is
really nasty. Um, I come down on
leverage as a very important principle
of building a business because if you
have leverage, you can deliver for your
client or your product. And you need
leverage in marketing. You need leverage
when you're selling people. You need
leverage when you're packaging content.
You need leverage to negotiate. Leverage
is a connotation of leverage isn't a is
a bad thing. And I'm not sure it's so
bad.
How do you think about packaging and how
important is packaging to a movie's
success? Are there movies that were
packaged poorly but should have like
otherwise been a success or
>> Well, you could say that about anything.
To me, packaging is a sinquon of life.
Uh I package everything in my life. I
put elements together constantly. I I I
just put a a business together by
combining
uh two disperate elements and it turned
out to be a business from something that
wasn't a business. It's no different
than packaging a television show and I
told you, you know, when Michael Kiteon
gave me the book of Jurassic Park, I put
the right director with it, Steven
Spieler, there was no second choice. Um,
a friend of mine who I have unbelievable
respect for, professor of AI at Stanford
named Chris Ray calls me up and said,
"Michael, I got a friend who's also
professor at Stanford, really bright
guy, and I want you to meet him, and
he's got really interesting technology,
but he's having some trouble getting it
off the ground." And I said, "Okay,
Chris, what what is it?" He said, "Well,
he's got a NFT company." He said,
"Chris, I'm not interested."
And he said, "Why is that? I don't like
NFTTS. I just don't like I'm an art
collector. I'm not a NFT collector." And
they were hot at one time. He said, "I'm
asking you from me to you. Please meet
him." The answer was instantaneously
yes. Wasn't a hesitation. guy of that
stature asked me to meet with someone
like when Ron Conway asked me to with
Andre it I didn't know why he wanted to
meet with me I didn't know anything
about clouds or technology
so I meet with a guy Dr. for Walter De
Brewer, Stanford AI professor, and he's
got an NFT company. We're 15 minutes
into the call, and all I can do is think
about how do I end this because it's
time is my enemy. Time is the only thing
in my life I am concerned about because
at some point you run out of it. And
[clears throat]
I love
I love my life right now. and I'm in the
best place I've ever been in. And it's
mostly cuz I'm on the most epic learning
curve imaginable.
Anyways, I don't know what happened,
Shane, but a light bulb went off in my
head when he described the technology
and what it does. He mentioned to me in
the course of it that he watermarked
with neural fingerprinting
these NFTts and I didn't skip a beat. I
don't know what came over me. I said,
"Can you do that with songs?"
And he said, "Oh, that's elementary."
Which I thought was such a great answer
cuz it was such a put down of me and it
was so perfect cuz he has a PhD and I
have nothing. So, [laughter] you know, I
what a what a what a course corrector,
right? because I'm sitting there trying
to figure out how to get off the phone
and this guy just makes the ultimate
statement that something that I couldn't
get to first base on. He thinks is
elementary. I said, "Okay, we're in a
new business." I said, "Assuming you can
do this," he says, "Trust me, I can do
this." I said, "We're in a new business.
Fold up the old company. Let's hire new
engineers.
We are now in the business of protecting
intellectual property rights." And then
I said, "Can you do this for video?" He
said, "Elementary." I said, "Can you do
this for [snorts]
athletic games?" Elementary.
We started a business.
I have spent most of my career in media
fighting intellectual property theft.
>> Yeah.
>> In 96, I led a trade delegation for
President Clinton to Beijing. I met with
the premier of China,
Jung Min, and Zu Rang Xi, the number
two, the head of finance, because they
were making videotapes
from people holding up video cameras in
theaters.
>> Yeah.
>> And they were killing the business and
they were stealing records and they were
duplicating tapes.
I made I went with
20 mega business people to lead the
delegation. We got nowhere.
And here I am on the phone with a PhD
from Stanford
telling me that he solved the problem.
And we put this company together. And I
called up Sir Lucian Grange who runs
Universal.
And I said, "Lucian, how long have you
and I been working on
in IP theft?" And he said, "Our whole
lives." I said, "I think I have the
answer." He said, "Tell me, show me." I
did. He said, "I'm in."
And now Universal and then uh Dennis
Koker and Rob Stringer at Sony. So, we
have the two biggest music companies and
we're watermarking songs and we will go
live very shortly. Next thing we do is
uh streaming. We'll do film. We will do
uh athletic games. I I had no idea. I
was on the phone with one of the heads
of the Premier League in London
[clears throat]
and he he called me because I know one
of the owners and he said, "We hear you
have some technology that can help us."
I said, "Well, why do you need help?"
Cuz I was curious.
He said, "Hard to believe, but we have
over 30 teams.
We have 750,000 illegal downloads every
team, every game."
I said, 'How's that possible? Wow.
>> He said, 'You could literally go on to
Google and find out how to get around
paying for a sporting event with very
simple instructions.
>> I was kind of shocked, [clears throat]
frankly, and the use case for what we
have fits all of this.
>> I want to come back to something you
said about time management. What would
you go back and tell your younger self?
What do you wish you knew when you were
younger about managing your time or
prioritization that you know now?
>> Well, that's a good question. It's a
simple answer because I think about it
so much. I I could have cut back 10% of
my business time where I did nothing but
business and let momentum carry it
forward and other people that worked
with me
and used that 10% of my time for my
family, for my art collecting, for
reading, for other things that were
important to me.
>> Do you think that's true? Because I
always wonder with this in hindsight,
you're looking back and you're like,
"Sure, I could have gave up 10 or 20% of
my time and had the same result, but
it's who you were as a person that gave
you that extra 10 or 20%."
>> And and I think you're 100% right and
that's the stopper. But
the reality is there's ways of doing it.
like I now book out my free time on my
own calendar
>> and I just it's there and it's not you
it doesn't get booked
there's a negative
in that as a successful business person
where you're feeding on the dopamine of
getting all these wonderful things done
and because you're on this role and you
have momentum you can get so much more
done that you want to do it every second
of the day but you have to be mature
enough to look at it and say maybe I'll
just cut 2% back at the beginning and do
X Y and Z and it's hard because you get
it's a conflicted
>> scenario in your own head
>> when you take meetings when people
recommend them it sound like what I hear
when you're saying that is I trust this
person so by proxy I trust the person
I'm meeting with how important is trust
and maybe you can spend just a few
minutes sort of
>> yeah I mean it's not complicated Trust
to me is the most important thing
between human beings. And I have and
I've been very viciferous about this and
it's happened to me uh a couple of times
in my life.
I don't handle betrayal well. And I'm
not talking about boyfriend, girlfriend.
I'm talking about in business. I don't
handle betrayal well. I don't think that
there's any justification for it under
any condition and I I react very badly
to it.
>> By betrayal, you mean malicious intent.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Or being set up for
something to fail or uh being lied to
and then walking into a trap. I mean,
we've seen all the plots in on
television, you know, Shane, there I can
give you 20 shows to watch, but it's
>> it's I'm not talking about male female
betrayal or male I'm not talking about
couples betrayal, you know?
>> No, you've had people close to you
betray you. Like, how how do you what do
you do in that moment? Like, how do you
bounce back from that?
>> How do you trust other people after
that? Well, you can't you can't,
you know, stain everyone with the same
brush. So, you have to kind of get back
up on your feet like I told you about
the guy in London. And you got to go
back and you got to kind of suck it up
and [clears throat]
[snorts]
get dressed and go out to the playing
field in your uniform
and get the ball and run with it. Again,
not easy cuz your legs aren't quite as
sure as they were before, but you got to
do it. And probably as it's happened to
me a few times in my life, I've gotten a
little more sensitive to the people that
I trust.
>> Do you find you put on more armor after
that happens and like keep you
>> Oh, I got very defensive. Yeah. Took me
a long time to get that armor off. Does
that happen with everybody or just the
person?
>> I don't know. Everyone Everyone has
different interpretations of it and
everyone it's unique to each human
being.
>> I I think
because of how I was raised that it
became a a very important thing to me.
>> I think that's a great place to end
this. We always end with the same
question which is what is success for
you?
It's a it's not a singular definition
for me. I have a very broad
um
definition of what success is. Success
to me is having an amazing family
because at the end of the day that's
your legacy. Nothing else unless you're
Jonas Sulk. You know, there's one of
those for every hundred million people.
Um, it's having had a great
run in your life in education.
It's having learned so much more than
you ever thought you'd learn.
It's building something from scratch,
which is why I started working again. I
love building things. Someone asked me
why I'm working at this stage of my
life,
and I looked at them like there was
something wrong with them. because how
could they even ask me that question?
But they then said, "Well, what's the
most fun time of your life?" I said,
"Building businesses that I started from
scratch. I'm doing it again. I'm a year
in with a couple of young partners." And
I mean, you know, I've got a young guy
named Ali Hammed with me who's 30 now.
He's 32 or three. And I've got my son uh
who joined me. It took me 10 years to
convince him to do that. He didn't want
to do it, but I've got his partner,
Alex, with me, and it's fun to build.
And then success to me is I find success
defined at the Thanksgiving dinner table
>> in this country. I don't even know if
you have Thanksgiving in Canada.
>> We do. We do. It's on Monday.
>> So, we we
It's my favorite holiday of the year.
It's more favorite than any other
holiday. birthdays, Christmas, Hanukkah,
anything because
it's all about your family. It's not
about giving forced gift giving.
>> I don't have to go buy a gift cuz it's
Christmas.
>> Yeah.
>> It's just you sit at the table and
you're just happy to be there and
there's no pressure.
>> I just love Thanksgiving. To me, it's
the most important holiday of the year.
>> I love that. But success is all those
things and success is having
accomplished something you know
and it's not definitionally a thing but
it can be. I was very proud when I
contributed to the UCLA medical center
being built. I was very proud when I got
IMP to build that and our building for
CA. I'm very proud when I built one of
my houses from scratch,
>> you know, that I could do. I'm very
proud sometimes when I buy a piece of
art that has a huge huge impact on my
life where someone's really connected
with me. Um, success has a lot of
parameters. It's not a single thing. And
when people say that to me like
this is my definition of success and
they give me a you know a one
[clears throat] word definition I can't
cope with that because it's just not the
case for me.
>> It's multifaceted.
>> Yeah. It's a lot of things that add up
and it's it to me success
is a great Sarra painting. Sarra was the
great pointalist. So if you looked at an
inch of his work, they were all dots.
You look at an inch, you don't see
anything. Two inches, you don't see
anything. Three, nothing. Four, maybe
you see an appendage of something. Six,
maybe something, a limb, a plant. 10,
oh, there's a face. Then when it gets to
be 4 feet or 3 feet by 2 feet, you see
an entire picture in front of your eyes.
And that to me
is the definition of success is that our
lives are made up of a lot of little
dots and when they tell the right
picture,
you hit it.
>> I think that's the most beautiful answer
I've heard in 200 and some episodes. I
appreciate that. Thank you so much.
>> Thank you for having me
>> coming on, Michael.
>> Thanks. Was great.